
BURN STATION - Net culture hits the streets!

What is this?

BURN STATION is an open source and non-profit initiative involving the new
means
of distribution through the Internet. Our main objective is to link a public
that is familiar with the electronic music and -but not necessarily- with the
tools, radios and labels available on the net.

BURN STATION brings net culture, net music and net radio down to the streets,
converting P2P and net distribution into a F2F (Face to Face) system.

We invite net labels, net radios, artists and independent media producers to
participate in this project by providing the works they'd like to distribute
plus the information and/or extra material that they deem important (details
about your work's background, philosophy and copyright policies, if you're a
label or distributor).

The final purpose is that the public can select, edit and burn their own
compilations in data or audio format, all within a legal context and in public
spaces. All the contents are distributed under the original licenses used by
each artist/producer.

The BURN STATION beta release was released on the 2nd of september during
Werkleitz Biennale in Halle (Germany), titled 'Common Property'.

www.werkleitz.de/events/biennale2004

Check the website for more information:
www.platoniq.net/burnstation


Software

The BURN STATION project is based on the software by the same name, developed
by
Platoniq and Rama with the support of the F30km/s Foundation and
Medien.KUNSTLABOR (Graz). The software allows the storage and management of the
database and the distribution and publishing of audio and soon video and text
files.

If you're interested in collaborating on the software development, please visit
www.burnstation.org

Services

BURN STATION will also serve as a public self-service publishing station for
various mobile projects, dealing with interventions bridging media space and
public space. BURN STATION brings net-culture to the streets!

Mobile Unit

The mobile unit version, set up in a van, is ready to go on tour. BURN STATION
converts itself into a mobile self-service of distribution set up in parks,
festivals, gas stations, parkings and other sub-urban spaces. People are
invited
to bring their CD-r's, listen, edit and burn their own compilations for FREE
(as in free beer).

Actions and live FM and net radio broadcasts are set up around the mobile unit.

Technical description

The BURN STATION software consists of two parts:

1. Server side

The server interface for managing contents is absolutely web based, which means
you can control it from any browser running on a box connected to the BURN
STATION Network. It connects to the database held on the server itself and
provides the content information to the web-clients accessing the server
contents management or back end (Netjuke for the moment) and also serves the
clients requesting the contents information to display on the 'Info
Panels'.

- Works as a DHCP server for the BURN STATION clients to auto configure the
network.

- Works as a local DNS (name server) for the BURN STATION network.

- Holds a shared media directory which the clients mount locally.

- Holds the back end interface and the SQL server (for the moment only MySQL is
supported).

- Holds the media database with all the information about the contents.

2.Client Side

The client interface was coded in wxPython, which are python bindings to
wxWidgets, an open-source toolkit for developing GUIs. Both python and wxPython
are multi-platform, which means they should also run in non-GNU/Linux systems.
However it was not tested, and the code was not considered or either developed
for other platforms than GNU/Linux. If you'd like to run the client on another
type of platform someone -or yourself- should port it.

- Runs the BURN STATION client interface (wxPython code).

- Mounts locally the shared media directory from the server.

- Copies from server to local hard drive (spool dir) and decompresses the music
when audio burn mode is selected and converts to stereo 16-bit 44.1KHz wave
files to burn as music audio-CD.

- Creates the ISO image locally taking data from the server, for burning as
data
mode.

The BURN STATION's Content Management System is based on a hacked version of
Netjuke (www.netjuke.org), a piece of software published under GPL, which is
the
most complete and developed web/database system for managing huge media
collections we've found by the time of writing this software.

Thanks for reading and now enjoy your listening and take some music with you!

The BURN STATION crew

